---
title: ［Paper］HapTug
categories: [Paper]
comments: true
---

<b>HapTug: Controller-linked Force-feedback Haptic Devices
for Tug Feelings in Virtual Reality</b><br><br>
 This study considers the problem that virtual reality devices provide a
very limited experience by relying on only two of the five human senses,
sight and hearing. This is one of the biggest obstacles hindering the
development of virtual reality and virtual reality devices, and as such we
propose HapTug as a solution.<br>
 HapTug is a force-feedback haptic device that implements tug force such
as pushing or pulling. It is made of a 2 DOF robot arm structure that can
be worn on the wrist. Currently, most virtual reality haptic devices create
new controllers to add force-feedback, whereas HapTug can be used in
connection with a bundle controller on the head mount display.<br>
 Performance evaluations and user evaluations were conducted to
demonstrate that HapTug enhances the virtual reality experience. First, we
measured the torque that HapTug can produce. In addition, for user
evaluation, we created content that users can experience tug force. After
the users experienced this, it was confirmed that the sense of reality,
immersion, and enjoyment increased compared to when HapTug was not
used. The results proved that using HapTug, users' virtual reality experience
was enhanced, and that HapTug effectively implements tug force.<br><br>

[HapTug.pdf](https://github.com/LimJongYoon/LimJongYoon.github.io/files/6874401/HapTug.pdf)
